What Gemini Pro 3 recommended:

Based on your current train.py, you have a solid foundation: it fetches data, engineers features, and runs a PPO agent. However, in its current state, it is likely to overfit (memorize past prices) rather than generalize (learn trading logic).

Here are 4 Strategic Upgrades to transform this from a basic script into an institutional-grade training pipeline.

1. The "Auto-Tuner" (Hyperparameter Optimization)

Current Status: Your hyperparameters (learning_rate, ent_coef, n_steps) are hardcoded. The Problem: RL is incredibly sensitive. A learning rate of 0.00005 might work for BTC but fail for ETH. Guessing these numbers is inefficient. The Strategy: Integrate Optuna. It runs 100 "mini-trials" to find the perfect settings automatically.

Implementation: Wrap your training logic in an objective function.

2. The "Time-Traveler" (Walk-Forward Validation)

Current Status: You train on the full dataset provided by fetch_training_data. The Problem: The model might learn that "Bitcoin always goes up in 2021." When you deploy it in 2025, it will fail because the trend changed. The Strategy: Implement Walk-Forward Validation (also called Rolling Window).

    Window 1: Train on Jan-Jun, Test on July.

    Window 2: Train on Feb-Jul, Test on August.

    Why: This forces the bot to adapt to changing market regimes (e.g., Bull Market → Bear Market) rather than memorizing one specific year.

3. The "Speed Demon" (Vectorized Environments)

Current Status: You are likely running a single environment instance. The Problem: RL requires millions of steps to converge. On a single CPU core, this takes hours. The Strategy: Use SubprocVecEnv (Vectorized Environments) to train on multiple CPU cores simultaneously.

Implementation: Modify how you initialize the environment before passing it to the RLAgent.

4. The "Risk Manager" (Reward Shaping)

Current Status: You have a basic reward_mode='profit' option. The Problem: "Profit" is a dangerous metric. A bot can get lucky with one 100x leverage trade and look like a genius, then lose it all the next day. The Strategy: Reward Risk-Adjusted Returns (Sharpe Ratio/Sortino Ratio).

    Penalty for Volatility: If the portfolio swings wildly, subtract points.

    Penalty for Inaction: If the bot sits in USDT for 30 days, give a small negative reward (entropy penalty) to force it to learn.

    Penalty for Trades: Subtract the trading fee x 2 from the reward. This teaches the bot that "over-trading" is expensive.

Quick Win: Add TensorBoard Logging

You currently use a custom logger. To visually debug your training (e.g., seeing if the "Loss" is decreasing or exploding), enable TensorBoard.

In your hyperparams dictionary, add:

hyperparams = {
    # ... existing params ...
    'tensorboard_log': "./logs/tensorboard/",
}

Now you can run tensorboard --logdir ./logs/tensorboard/ in your terminal to see live graphs of your bot's IQ improving.
